project1.md, before:

[Back to Portfolio](./)

Project 1 Title
===============

-   **Class:** 
-   **Grade:** 
-   **Language(s):** 
-   **Source Code Repository:** [features/mastering-markdown](https://guides.github.com/features/mastering-markdown/)  
    (Please [email me](mailto:example@csustudent.net?subject=GitHub%20Access) to request access.)

## Project description

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit, sed do eiusmod tempor incididunt ut labore et dolore magna aliqua. Ut enim ad minim veniam, quis nostrud exercitation ullamco laboris nisi ut aliquip ex ea commodo consequat. Duis aute irure dolor in reprehenderit in voluptate velit esse cillum dolore eu fugiat nulla pariatur. Excepteur sint occaecat cupidatat non proident, sunt in culpa qui officia deserunt mollit anim id est laborum.

## How to compile and run the program

How to compile (if applicable) and run the project.

```bash
cd ./project
python setup.py
```

If the programming language does not require compilation, the update the heading to be “How to run the program.” If your application is deployed on a remote service, including instructions on how to deploy it.

## UI Design

Almost every program requires user interaction, even command-line programs. Include in this section the tasks the user can complete and what the program does. You don't need to include how it works here; that information may go in the project description or in an additional section, depending on its significance.

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet (see Fig 1), consectetur adipiscing elit, sed do eiusmod tempor incididunt ut labore et dolore magna aliqua. Ut enim ad minim veniam, quis nostrud exercitation ullamco laboris nisi ut aliquip ex ea commodo consequat (see Fig 2). Duis aute irure dolor in reprehenderit in voluptate velit esse cillum dolore eu fugiat nulla pariatur. Excepteur sint occaecat cupidatat non proident, sunt in culpa qui officia deserunt mollit anim id est laborum (see Fig 3).

![screenshot](images/dummy_thumbnail.jpg)  
Fig 1. The launch screen

![screenshot](images/dummy_thumbnail.jpg)  
Fig 2. Example output after input is processed.

![screenshot](images/dummy_thumbnail.jpg)  
Fig 3. Feedback when an error occurs.

## 3. Additional Considerations

Sed ut perspiciatis unde omnis iste natus error sit voluptatem accusantium doloremque laudantium, totam rem aperiam, eaque ipsa quae ab illo inventore veritatis et quasi architecto beatae vitae dicta sunt explicabo. 

For more details see [GitHub Flavored Markdown](https://guides.github.com/features/mastering-markdown/).

[Back to Portfolio](./)

Commit message:

Revise project details and update description
Updated project details including class, grade, and languages used. Revised project description to reflect the use of Python and Beautiful Soup for web scraping.

project1.md, after:

[Back to Portfolio](./)

Project 1 Title
===============

-   **Class:** Survey of Scripitng Languages
-   **Grade:** 100/100
-   **Language(s):** Python
-   **Source Code Repository:** [features/mastering-markdown](https://guides.github.com/features/mastering-markdown/)  
    (Please [email me](mailto:example@csustudent.net?subject=GitHub%20Access) to request access.)

## Project description

For this assignment, I used Python and the Beautiful Soup library to practice web scraping. The Real Python tutorial (https://realpython.com/beautiful-soup-web-scraper-python/) includes a “Keep Practicing” exercise where I had to take my web-scraping code and apply it to websites that use static HTML. From the list of suggested sites, I chose one and wrote a script that collects a list of jobs that might interest me.

To complete the project, I used the requests library to pull the webpage’s HTML and then used BeautifulSoup to parse the page and extract the information I needed. After my scraper collected the job titles, I saved the Python file to my GitHub so it can be viewed or downloaded. I also submitted the list of jobs I scraped into Blackboard as required.

## How to compile and run the program

How to compile (if applicable) and run the project.

```bash
cd ./project
python setup.py
```

If the programming language does not require compilation, the update the heading to be “How to run the program.” If your application is deployed on a remote service, including instructions on how to deploy it.

## UI Design

Almost every program requires user interaction, even command-line programs. Include in this section the tasks the user can complete and what the program does. You don't need to include how it works here; that information may go in the project description or in an additional section, depending on its significance.

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet (see Fig 1), consectetur adipiscing elit, sed do eiusmod tempor incididunt ut labore et dolore magna aliqua. Ut enim ad minim veniam, quis nostrud exercitation ullamco laboris nisi ut aliquip ex ea commodo consequat (see Fig 2). Duis aute irure dolor in reprehenderit in voluptate velit esse cillum dolore eu fugiat nulla pariatur. Excepteur sint occaecat cupidatat non proident, sunt in culpa qui officia deserunt mollit anim id est laborum (see Fig 3).

![screenshot](images/dummy_thumbnail.jpg)  
Fig 1. The launch screen

![screenshot](images/dummy_thumbnail.jpg)  
Fig 2. Example output after input is processed.

![screenshot](images/dummy_thumbnail.jpg)  
Fig 3. Feedback when an error occurs.

## 3. Additional Considerations

Sed ut perspiciatis unde omnis iste natus error sit voluptatem accusantium doloremque laudantium, totam rem aperiam, eaque ipsa quae ab illo inventore veritatis et quasi architecto beatae vitae dicta sunt explicabo. 

For more details see [GitHub Flavored Markdown](https://guides.github.com/features/mastering-markdown/).

[Back to Portfolio](./)
